Okay, so now let's talk
about Elastic Beanstalk.
So so far in this course
when we've been deploying an application,
we've had the same architecture.
So we have a load balancer
that is taking all the requests from our users
and then we have an auto scaling group
with multiple available zones and in each AZ
there will be some EC2 instances being deployed there
and then in the backend,
we have maybe some data subnets,
so we have an RDS database to take the reads and writes,
maybe we have replicas and so on.
And if you're in the caching layer,
in the caching layer, we need to look at ElastiCache, okay?
So if there are so many applications for us to deploy
and they follow the same architecture,
it may be a pain to recreate it every single time.
So as a developer, it's complicated
to manage infrastructure, to deploy code,
we don't want to be configuring all the databases,
the load balancers, et cetera, et cetera.
And of course we want everything to be scaling.
So as we can see, most of the web applications
will have the same architecture
with a load balancer and an auto scaling group
and as a developer, all I want to do
is for my code run, okay?
I don't want to worry about everything else.
So also, if I develop in different programming languages
and have different applications and environments,
I possibly want a single way of deploying my application
and this is where Beanstalk comes into play.
So Beanstalk gives a developer centric view
of deploying an application on AWS.
The idea is that from one single interface,
it's going to reuse all the components we've seen before,
such as EC2, ASG, ELB, RDS,
but it's going to be a managed service
that will deploy all these things for you.
So it will handle the capacity provisioning,
it will handle all the configuration of the load balancer,
the scaling, the application health monitoring,
the instance configuration and so on.
And the only responsibility for you as a developer
is going to be the code itself, okay?
You still have full control over the configuration
of each component, but at least they come bundled
as one single interface in Beanstalk
and the idea is that Beanstalk also has a really cool way
of updating applications.
So the Beanstalk service is free on its own,
but you're going to pay for the underlying instances
that are going to be leveraged by Beanstalk
or your ASG or your ELB, those kinds of things.
So components of Beanstalk consist of an application,
which is a collection of Beanstalk components,
such as environments, versions and configurations.
A version of the application itself
is an iteration of your application code.
So you can have version one, version two,
version three, et cetera, et cetera.
Then an environment, it's just a collection
of your resources running the specific application version.
So you can only have one application version at a time
in an environment, where we can see
we can actually update an application version
within an environment from version one to version two.
We have tiers, so we can have two different tiers.
In Beanstalk, we have the web server environment tier
and the worker environment tier.
We'll see those very quickly.
And we can also create multiple environments in Beanstalk,
such as dev, test and prod
and whatever environment you have in mind really.
So the process is to create an application,
then we upload a version.
Then we are going to launch an environment
and then we're going to manage an environment lifecycle
and if we wanted to iterate on that,
we could update the version by uploading a new version
and then deploy that new version again in our environment
to update our application stack.
So Beanstalk supports many programming languages,
such as Go, Java SE, Java with Tomcat,
.NET Core on Linux, .NET on Windows Server,
Node.js, PHP, Python, Ruby,
Packer Builder, Single Docker Container,
Multi Docker Container, Pre-configured Docker.
So the idea is that on Beanstalk
you should be able to deploy pretty much anything.
Now to finish, what do I mean
by server tier and worker tier?
Well, the web tier is looking like this.
This is the traditional architecture that we know,
where we have a load balancer
and then it's sending traffic to an auto scaling group
that has multiple EC2 instances
that are going to be your web server.
This is the architecture number one with Beanstalk
and the architecture number two with Beanstalk
is going to be around a worker environment.
So this time there is no clients accessing directly
your EC2 instances.
We're going to use an SQS queue, which is a message queue
and the message will be sent into the SQS queue
and the EC2 instances are going to be workers,
because they're going to pull messages
from the SQS queue to process them.
And in this case, the worker environment
is going to scale based on the number of SQS messages.
So the more messages, the more EC2 instances.
And then the cool is that you can put the web environment
and the work environment together
by having the web environment push some messages
into the SQS queue of the worker environment.
Finally, there are two deployment modes
you need to know for Beanstalk.
The first one is a single instance,
which is great for development purposes.
In this case, you'll have one EC2 instance
which will have an Elastic IP,
potentially it can also launch an RDS database and so on,
but it's all based on one instance with an Elastic IP.
It's great for development purposes,
but then if you wanted to scale
a real Elastic Beanstalk mode,
then you would go for high available with a load balancer,
which is great for production environments,
in which case, you can have a load balancer distributing
the loads across multiple EC2 instances
that are managed for an auto scaling group
and multiple available zones.
And finally, you may have an RDS database
that's also multi AZ with a master and a standby.
All right, that's it.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.